Ariana Borlak

Scenario #1

A.  What should you do? 
	What are the consequences of action/inaction?
	Whose safety should be prioritized?
	Will reporting the bug result in a net positive for the people involved?

B.  Main character - should have the right to browse applications and has the legal
		right to do security research as long as this does not involve bypassing
		security measures on the application. They should also have the right to
		responsibly disclose security vulnerabilities.
	Instatoonz - has the legal right to sue if someone gains unauthorized access
		to their app; they also morally have the right to know about any security
		vulnerabilities in their system
	Customers - should have the right to privacy and the right to know whether their
		personal information is safe from attackers

C.  One of the main pieces of missing information is how you discovered this bug. This
		can have more legal implications if you relied on illegal methods of digging
		through the app. It also has more ethical implications, if it took 
		circumventing existing security measures to discover the bug and Instatoonz did 
		not give you permission to do so.
	Similarly, it would also be useful to know more information about the circumstances
		of the last bug report. It is likely that the last bug reporter did not 
		illegally find the bug since the FBI dropped the case, but what happened and
		why Instatoonz sued is unclear.
	Going further, an important thing to know would be if Instatoonz fixed the bug
		that was previously reported, or whether they completely disregarded it.
	Another thing that would be helpful to know for sure is whether you actually could
		get in legal trouble for violating the DMCA. In either case, it would be wise
		to consult with a lawyer before reporting this bug.
	It would also be helpful to know whether Instatoonz has guaranteed privacy of 
		customers' information. If clients have been led to believe that all their 
		private messages will be kept private, they have a right to know about the bug.

D.  Report the bug only to Instatoonz
		What plays out will most likely be what happened with the last bug report.
		You will get sued, although there might be less of an uproar. If you are in 
		fact in violation of the DMCA, you could face serious jail time and fines. If 
		the bug did not get fixed last time, it most likely will not get fixed this 
		time. Since Instatoonz does not seem to take security vulnerabilities seriously, 
		it's unlikely to get fixed either way.
	Report the bug first to Instatoonz to give them time to fix it, and then make the
	bug public
		Instatoonz might still sue you in this scenario so you could again face jail
		time if you're in violation of the DMCA, but it puts a lot more pressure on 
		them to at least fix the bug before the vulnerability is made public. Also
		making the bug public lets customers know that their information is exposed,
		so they can act accordingly. If Instatoonz does not fix the vulnerability, this
		opens a door for attackers to begin stealing customers' messages.
	Do nothing
		This will keep you out of legal trouble if Instatoonz is oblivious to you 
		finding the bug. But this still leaves the customers' information vulnerable 
		for an attacker to exploit, although they would have to dig around to find the
		bug like you did.
	Access customers' information and sell it
		This could put you in an even worse legal situation than if you were in 
		violation of the DMCA, if Instatoonz found out what you were doing. If 
		Instatoonz does not notice, you could make a lot of money but the customers
		will have their right to privacy violated, without their knowledge.

E.  The ACM Code of Ethics implores computing professionals to respect privacy and 
	honor confidentiality. In this scenario this applies to keeping the customers'
	messages private and trying to fix the bug that makes them vulnerable.

	The Code of Ethics also advises to avoid harm. This can also apply to keeping the
	customers' information private, but more significantly applies to keeping yourself
	from harm. Although reporting the bug would be done in good faith, Instatoonz seems
	unlikely to act in good faith and may cause you significant harm in either legal 
	fees or even jail time if they find you're in violation of the DMCA.

F.  If there is any way to remain anonymous when reporting the bug, my recommendation
	for both options (bug involves encryption/copy-protection or not) is to proceed
	with the second action, first privately and then publicly reporting the bug. If you
	remain anonymous, both you and the customers' information will be protected to the
	best of your ability. Being vague when exposing the bug publicly can also slow down
	attackers, if Instatoonz does not choose to fix it. This gives Instatoonz the
	opportunity to fix the bug, but also gives customers knowledge about the situation
	so they can make more informed decision about sending messages or staying on the
	platform.

	If you can't remain anonymous but consult with a lawyer and find you are not in
	violation of the DMCA or any other laws, I would recommend taking the same action.
	You will likely face some legal fees and general inconveniences, but eventually 
	Instatoonz will have to back down, and their customers will have more knowledge 
	about the situation, so there would still be a net positive for most of the
	stakeholders.

	If you find that you cannot remain anonymous and that you are in violation of the
	DMCA, I would advise that you do nothing. In this scenario, your safety should be 
	prioritized since you would face great personal harm for reporting the bug, even 
	though it would be well a intended action. Instatoonz might not fix the bug if you 
	do report it, so you could be facing jail time for little good to come out of the 
	situation.